2018.01.09

Its a brand new year and all I can think about is Mike Roeder. Its strange how your past comes back to life brightest when it is dying, reminding you in that incendescent moment of all that was and all that could have been and of all that will never be now that the inescapable jaws of death have closed once again. I try to imagine what it must be like for his wife, now a widow, to be processing this experience, waking up in their bed each morning and once again realizing the awful truth that he will never be there next to her again. I feel the surging emotions as I consider the confusion and sorrow of his children, children who no longer have their dad, children who have experienced death before they could even legally drive. I think about my own babies, curled up in the blissful ignorance of deep sleep, oblivious to all these heavy thoughts raining down on my head and I wonder just how much Mike would give for one more day in his routine life, one more breakfast together, one more great conversation, one more lingering embrace, one more night with friends, one last lover's embrace before signing off with a tender kiss.

Its a brand new year and all I can think about is death.


2018.01.10

Things are looking up slightly today. I managed to overcome my major blockage on the elastic search integration on the SD2E project and am moving forward again. I got that coders buzz when I finally saw the data populating the search indices yesterday. If I can get the UX tied into the search today it will be a good day. Meanwhile the doldrums of day to day life seem to keep rolling by. It helps in keeping a level head if I avoid all politics and social media for the most part, ignoring the petulant manchild heading the current kakistocracy into the gutter and all the associated idiocy that brings with it. I will be adhering to the mentality that I have no fucks left to give beyond the concerns of my immediate family and friends. It keeps things simple while it keeps me sane. It also makes the world a better place, or at least feel like one. Gotta believe something, right?


2018.01.11

There are few things in this world that I love with the same consistent passion as a good cup of coffee. I'm no purist, load that sucker up with cream and agave nectar until its basically a coffee flavored dessert and we are good to go. A good cup of black tea will do in a pinch, but its no java. Something about that bean, especially the Ruta Maya brand, just resonates with me.

I am still managing to resist media overload so far. Listened to a TRMS podcast yesterday to get caught up on general world events. Seems that Trump is still about to be dethroned every day yet he maintains power while his administration continues to destroy every institution or piece of legislation they touch. Thankfully their extreme incompetence in even the most basic aspects of governance help to minimize the amount of damage they can do, but it is becoming clearer on a daily basis that one party in our duocracy has given up on any pretense of being anything other than a craven, greed driven pack of psychotic oligarchs pushing a regressive agenda of bigotry and hate with little concern for the consequences of those beliefs. I hope Robert Mueller cuts every head off the damn hydra.


2018.01.12

I read a series of tweets yesterday that has been stuck in my mind ever since. It was a series of single tweet length excerpts (280 char limit) from an imaginary work of fiction in which all of the characters were based on current American politicians. Obama was a deep state strategist with Michelle and Oprah running a meta-game around that, the Clintons were made to sound almost Sherlock Holmesian, and Trump is shown to be a senile stooge trapped by his own scheming and secretly being tortured by Melania. There was more, with Pence being a double agent for the Dems and Russia, Biden working out Rocky-style in a meat locker between "fights" and the mysterious Mother, who dictates events from afar. Really some of the most imaginatively written dialog and exposition I have seen in ages. I hope that guy gets a book deal from it. If nothing else, it has inspired me to keep writing my tiny daily entry like this. Someday it will all add up, at least I hope it will. You never know until you try.


2018.01.18

The last few days were nice - after the winter break we return for a week only to hav =e the MLK three day weekend arrive. This year it got so cold that we had snow and ice the following Tuesday so UT was closed. Haven't had a proper snow day in years, so tht was nice. I took the following Wednesday as a sick day because I indeed felt wiped out. Now as I prepare to bundle up and head out into the cold darkness of Thursday morning, I question the need to go in today. I *could* call in sick again, but there is a big team meeting today and free lunch at Chuys - who wants to miss that after all? So instead of snuggling up in my deb again, I will head back to TACC (and lunch) to see if I can get elastic search fully implemented at last. Assuming I have any air in my back tire that is... *sigh*

Some random thoughts I had:
- a great character name: Doctor Docker Darker.


2018.01.19

Thats the thing about the incredible moments of life, the breath-taking stop your heart moments when everything is just perfect, they don't exist in a vacuum. They are mixed in alongside an infinitude of mundane and even awful moments, the counterpoint to existential perfection. What's worse is that these precious moments flow by without any particular fanfare, just another point in time as far as the bigger stream of reality is concerned, and if you don't make the conscious effort to absorb those precious moments and live fully in that joy then you will miss them. Noone wants to look back at their life and realize they missed all the joy. No one wants to, but many of us do exactly that.


